---
title: Generating Random Numbers in Python
description: This guide discusses using Python to generate random numbers in a certain range.
authors: ['Scott Davidson']
author_contacts: ['scottd']
apis: ['RhinoPython']
languages: ['Python']
platforms: ['Mac', 'Windows']
categories: ['intermediate']
origin:
order: 100
keywords: ['script', 'Rhino', 'python']
layout: toc-guide-page
---


## Overview

Python comes with a random number generator which can be used to generate various distributions of numbers.  These random number generators are suitable for generate numbers for spacial and graphical distributions.  To access the random numebr generators, the `random` module must be imported.

IMPORTANT NOTE: The pseudo-random generators of this module should not be used for security purposes. Use `os.urandom()` or `SystemRandom` if you require a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator.

## Simple Random numbers

The basic method to create a random number is:

```python
import random

# use random.uniform to gnerate a number between to numbers.
low = 4; high = 8
ran_number = random.uniform(low, high)
print str(ran_number)
```

Use random.random to generate a random number between 0 and 1. The random.random number can be used to generate a number between two numbers using this formula:

```python
import random

low = 4; high = 8
ran_number = low + ((high-low)*random.random())
print str(ran_number)
```

## Advanced Random numbers

For graphic and special random distributions, many times better distributions can be generated by usin one of the advanced distributions. These random numbers can generate cumulative distribution functions. There are functions to compute [uniform](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_distribution_(continuous)), [normal \(Gaussian\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution), [lognormal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log-normal_distribution), [negative exponential](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential_distribution), [gamma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma_distribution), and [beta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beta_distribution) distributions. For generating distributions of angles, the [von Mises distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Mises_distribution) is also available.

For more detailed information on these advanced number generators go to the [Generate pseudo-random numbers documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/library/random.html)

The Random module contains functions to integers, uniform selection from a range. For sequences, uniform selection of a random element, a function to generate a random permutation of a list in-place, and a function for random sampling without replacement.

The Random number generator may also be started with a seed number.  When this is done, the generator can create a reapeatable set of pseudo-random numbers. If reapeatbaility is important, this may be worth using.  Normally the current system time is used which leads to a different solution each time.

## Choosing Randomly

The random functions also have the ability to choose a random element from a list

```python
import random

print random.choice('abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvmxyz')  # Choose a random letter from the string
````

Or random can generate a set of samples from a larger list of values.

```python
import random

random.sample([1, 2, 3, 4, 5],  3)  # Choose 3 random elements from the list
```

For more detailed information on these advanced methods go to the [Generate pseudo-random numbers documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/library/random.html)

## Os and System Random

For a random number gerator that does not rely on the software state and the sequenses are not reproducable, use the SystemRandom method. This function returns random bytes from an OS-specific randomness source.

```python
import sys
import random

key_num = random.SystemRandom()
print key_num.random() #produces a number between 0 and 1
print key_num.randint(0, sys.maxint) # produces a integer between 0 and the highest allowed by the OS.
```

---

## Related Links

- [Generate pseudo-random numbers documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/library/random.html)
